# Day 3: No Matter How You Slice It

This was a little confusing. At first I wanted to use the AABB (Axis-Aligned Bounding Boxes) algorithm to determine overlap, which seemed pretty straightforward to determine overlap. Apparently I was getting ahead of myself there because that would come in handy for Part 2. My issue with Part 1 was over-engineering again. I was thinking of doing some silly grouping of going through each individual fabric and determining "partners" it would overlap with, then finding the commonalities between them. Then I started hitting edge-case hell, thinking that just because two fabrics overlap doesn't mean that any _additional_ fabrics would overlap in the same manner. It was around this time that I realized that really, the _only_ way I was going to determine if a coordinate would overlap with more than 1 other fabric was if I had some sort of state variable to determine how many times _this particular coordinate_ has been overlapped. So that's about the time I created the `AllPossibleCoordinates()` function [here](fabric/allpossible.go), which just kinda brute-forced its way through all the coordinates and just kept a count of how many overlaps each coordinate received. At that point I'd just count up each item that had an overlap count of `>1`, and that was the answer to Part 1. This was after I added a few other functions that I thought would help me out, but not quiet yet apparently.

Part 2 asked for something that I had luckily already written. At this point I could use the AABB algorithm before to determine if a piece of fabric overlapped with another, and I'd just run through the list of fabrics and look for the one piece of fabric that didn't overlap with anything. At least part 2 was already done for me.