# Day 14: Chocolate Charts

This challenge wasn't that difficult once I understood exactly what it was asking for. The problem was actually understanding it. I always approach these challenges after day 10 with some level of caution because I'm just assuming that if I take everything at face value and just do what it asks me with wanton disregard of compute resources then I face the issue of executing and staring at a screen while it displays nothing and my CPU fan starts to spin up noticably louder. So I try to _not_ fall for those little pitfalls. I assumed the worst with this one because it seemed like the perfect setup to something that grows exponentially and blows up my RAM.

After some hesitation to the aforementioned, I finally just said screw it and created the object, expecting it to baloon to an unreasonable level. Part one was pretty simple _once I realized what the challenge wanted._ Apparently regardless of the challenge input, the starting recipe number was always going to be `37`. I though the starting recipe number was the puzzle input. Rather the puzzle input [for part one] was the amount of times I was to iterate over the amount of recipes. I just let it run the amount of times it asked for (after I changed the `day14.go` file to not read an input file but rather take a number in as a command line flag) and it spit out the answer to part 1.

Part two took me a while to figure out only because I was confused as to exactly what it wanted. I wrote a few functions thinking it was doing anything, but after some reading and re-reading, I figured out that actually the challenge input was the _pattern_ I was supposed to look for. Since I didn't know how big the recipes were supposed to be the only thing I could think of was to check for the pattern every time a new cycle occurred. At first I got the wrong answer a couple of times because of one thing that caused me to scratch my head for quite a while: I need to check for the pattern _not only_ on every new cycle, _but also_ twice when a new cycle happens _and_ more than one digit is appended to the end. Because I wasn't doing that and yet it was still finding the 6-digit pattern, I had no idea why I wasn't getting the right answer until I just consulted AI. It pretty quickly alerted me to the discrepency, and I then re-wrote the `FindPatternAfterEachRecipe()` function to not just blindly call the `AddRecipes()` function, but instead re-execute the function but check for the pattern when both situations occur.

This challenge was okay. Not one of my favorites but at least I wasn't working on this for too long. Execution completed in `212.4059ms`. 