# Day 5: Alchemical Reduction

Always a pleasure when I get to use one of the frameworks I built previously in my utils module as one of the main features in solving a puzzle. In this case, it was my [GStack](../utils/gStack.go) module, named against the standard "stack" because it's using generics instead of interfaces as previously used, allowing me to use it more flexibly. Is flexibly a word? Whatever, I used a generic stack for this one because it was extremely similar (sorta) to a challenge I did in the Advent of Code 2025, namely [Day 3: Lobby](https://github.com/AgroDan/aoc2025/blob/main/day3/README.md). Remember I'm doing this one out of order from the previous ones because apparently I just can't get enough of Advent of Code.

This employed the stack to build a rune stack, and simply compare the next letter with what was on top of the stack, if they "reacted" then pop off the stack and drop the letter, move onto the next one. If they didn't react, then push onto the stack and check the next letter. Fun fact about this one, I thought it wasn't efficient enough and I had to just keep repeating until there were no more reactions, only to find out I had an off-by-one error in how the data was ingested, it didn't trim the space or newline after it received the input! I fixed this one in the utils directory and I'll have to update this on the module in a separate git repo that I'll be using for future challenges.

The next part sought to add some additional compute complexity by checking for units that prevented further breakdown, but by using stacks it was efficient enough that I just ran through the alphabet and removed single letters and just checked for the biggest breakdown afterwards, brute-forcing all possible combinations. I bet if I did kind of a bubble-sort method of just running through the rune slice looking for reactions it would've taken forever, but by using a stack for this I was able to complete the challenge in `5.1333ms`, and honestly most of that came from printing the output.