# Day 15: Beverage Bandits

Oof.

I had heard tales of this one. This challenge was mentioned [during Eric Wastl's Keynote at CPP North 2024](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uZ8DcbhojOw), and this is primarily why I started AOC 2018 to begin with. This challenge was _so cool_. You draw up the code to determine the outcome of an all-out war between the Elves and the Goblins! It doesn't get much cooler than that. This is why I do the Advent of Code!

This was the first challenge that took me literal days to complete, and if I were actually participating in the AOC in 2018 with the capabilities that I have now, this is where I would trip up and be left behind for the remainder of the event. I stuck it out though; just look at the challenge! There are _so many stipulations to be aware of._ Keeping track of each individual unit is simple, but determining the order of things is where it gets hinky. Each unit, if it isn't in range of another unit, has to determine which unit it should move towards. That means that not only does it have to get closer, but it also has to ensure that a valid pathway exists to that target.

At first, I figured I could sorta cut to the front of the line in terms of computational conservation by using the [A* algorithm](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/A*_search_algorithm). It seemed like a no-brainer, you'd always move toward the target in the most efficient way possible. The problem here though is the initial A* algorithm calls for an extremely simple heuristics function, that just gets the [Manhattan Distance](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Taxicab_geometry) from a certain coordinate and the target, using _that_ as the score. The problem here is that this does not account for walls or any other obstacles in the way, so it never really knows how many steps away from the target any given coordinate is. I tried to shoehorn a [Breadth-First Search Algorithm](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Breadth-first_search) in as the heuristics function to determine the amount of possible steps...until I realized that I'm not only duplicating effort, but I'm also losing whatever compute savings I would have had with just A*. Also forget trying to figure out how to find the "Reading Order" of directions when there's a tie score. So I scrapped that idea.

Ultimately I figured that I'd stop using A* and just go with BFS. The idea being that I'd get all 4 directions around a unit that were considered valid (not being a wall or another unit), then run BFS with a little breadcrumb attached to it to find out the shortest distance for each direction. If one direction was clearly the shortest, then that's the direction it would go. If there were a tie, decide based on reading order. Finally, after a _lot_ of debugging, I was able to get it to run and emulate almost all of the challenge examples...but one didn't quite match up: the ones where the Elves outnumbered the Goblins and would ultimately win!

I spent an embarrassing amount of time looking through my code for _Goblin Prejudice_, only to find out that I left out a key rule: The war can be over in the middle of a full cycle of units, _and_ a unit can be dead before all the units have moved or attacked! Once I figured the logic to that, it ran flawlessly.

Part two was mercifully easier. I wrote a `DeepCopy()` function for the `Battlefield` object and re-ran it for every new attack power I'd give the elves, then had some boolean checks to see if any elf had died. If even one elf died, scrap that map and try again. Once the war was finished and all elves were alive, there's your answer.

This challenge took a whopping `31.8723103s` to run. I'm just so happy to be over this hump. Woohoo!